Week 1


* What we planned for the period since last work diary entry

  Not applicable 
  
* What we finished and what was my contribution

We formed our group. I created a Jira and Github account for the group, and invited all the members. We had a brainstorming
session after the first tutorial on Tuesday where we came up with some novel ideas for our project. I then created a Google drive
folder for our team and invited all our members and added the results of the brainstoring session as a google doc on the drive.
We discussed time for a second meeting and we organized a meeting from 2-4 pm on Satuday, 6th June to discuss and create the 
user stories for the project. I set up the meeting on Zoom and sent a link to all the members. 
The meeting lasted from 2pm - 4:30 pm and we discussed the most crucial user stories we were confident that we plan to complete
in the first few sprints. I facilitated the discussion in the team and created all the stories on Jira. All stories created 
have a description and acceptance criteria. We also looked at an API we could use - RapidAPI, which Ruby discovered. 
It seems very useful for getting recipe information based on ingredients and we plan to use it in our project.


* What were the main technical and non-technical obstacles and how they were overcome (or what was tried and did not work)
There were no technical obstacles since we haven't yet started development. The main challenges during this period was deciding
the specifics of our design and our requirements. We sometimes had disagreements about a particular feature's design or acceptance
criteria. For example, we were not sure what information we should show on the list of recipes in a contributor's list or list
of favorite recipes of a recipe explorer. In the end, we examined some of the existing applications and decided as a team that
adding too much information would clutter the list and decided to only show the name and image of each recipe.

We also had a conflict about whether we should have a primary category for a recipe that a user can decide. Based on our discussion,
we have decided a primary category is not necessary for our application and it might make the interface more confusing for the
user since recipe contributors could be inconsistent in what they think is the primary category. We would instead have tags
for our recipes and contributors can assign multiple tags to a recipe. 

We resolved these and other such conflicts through a team discussion and consensus. Everyone expressed their opinions and justifications
for their preference. Based on this, the team came to a consensus about what was the best design or way of achieving the story's
objective. 

* What was not finished, why this happened, how this affects the overall project progress and what adjustments (if any) are 
needed so the success of the project isnot endangered

We have yet to finish our sprint planning for the first sprint, our storyboards and our system architecure. Our meeting was too
long and all the team members felt it was best to discuss these details at a later date when we were in a better state of mind.
I created a whatisgood poll to decide on the time for our next meeting and sent a link on the group chat for a meeting next
week to finish these deliverables. We don't think it significatnly affects our progress because the project proposal is due in
week 3, and we plan to finish all these deliverables within 1 or 2 meetings next week. 

- what is planned for the next period (e.g., next week)

Next week, we have planned to finish storyboards and system architecture, so that we can start making the report for week 3.
